THIS FILE IS UNEDITED AND INACCURATE!

The command `help' will display this file.

This is a `informal' contest.  The command

	help informal_contest

displays more details about informal contests.

You have been given a password and an account name.  If
you have an xterminal, the xcsh command will make more
windows: see `help xterminals'.

The command `hpcm_get' will get a demonstration problem
into your directory ~/demos/count (~ denotes your home
directory).  Read ~/demos/count/README and ~/demos/
count/Makefile and practice submitting the demonstration
problem.

To find out what problems are available use the command
`help problems'.  The command `hpcm_get problems/foo'
will get the problem named `foo' into your directory
`~/problems/foo' where you can work on it.  See `help
solving'.

The command `scoreboard' will display the scoreboard.
The time of a problem is the time between when it is
gotten with hpcm_get and the time a solution is submit-
ted.  See `help scoreboard'.

To display a list of the help files available use the
command `help index'.  Note that if something in the
index has the name `help/topic' you use the command
`help topic' to view it.

To send a question to the contest manager DO NOT e-mail
the manager directly.  Instead edit the question into a
file qqq and use the command:

	hpcm_sendmail < qqq

You may be able to use the print commands in an informal
contest, if you are located in the same building as the
printer.  The command `printer' will tell you the name
of the printer.  Otherwise you can set up your account
to either use a different printer or to e-mail post-
script files of printouts to the e-mail address of your
choice.  See `help print'.

The problem descriptions are files in the problem direc-
tories that have one of the extensions .txt, .html,
.htm, .ps, etc.  These can be emailed to your home
computer.  The print commands will not currently print
.html, .htm, or .ps files.  But you can email these
files to your home computer where they can be displayed
with a browser.

If you are simulating a formal contest precisely, you
will not be allowed to use the alternative make commands
that `in-submit' or `inout-submit'.  However `solution-
submit' may work.

In order to get good scores on problems, you must AVOID
getting a problem description (with hpcm_get) UNTIL you
are READY to swiftly solve it.

Good hunting!
