Informal Contest Help	    Sat Mar 11 09:04:12 EST 2006


Informal contests are a way of practicing for formal
contests using timed scoring.  In an informal contest
you get each problem individually, and typically get the
problem description as a file only when you hpcm_get the
problem.  The start time of the problem is either the
time you hpcm_get the problem, or the time you hpcm_get
the first problem in the contest.

An informal contest can be set up so each team can par-
ticipate at a different time, say one on Sunday after-
noon and another on Tuesday evening.  Or an informal
contest can be set up so each contestant can solve each
problem at a different time.

For some informal contests you get problem descriptions
from the web or on paper, and are on your honor not to
look at them until you hpcm_get problems.  Or in some
contests you may look at and discuss the problems in
advance, but are on your honor not to type anything
concerning the problem into a computer until you hpcm_
get the problem.

Rules for Informal Contests:
----- --- -------- --------

You will be given a contest account name and a password,
either by email or on a sheet of paper.   You can log
into the contest account from anywhere (e.g., if there
are not enough terminals in one place you can go to any
other place, or you can work at `home').

You must use the secure shell (ssh) to log into the
contest computers.  You may use an X-Terminal equivalent
(X-server) in combination with ssh.  If you use an
X-Terminal equivalent, you can make new windows easily
with xcsh: see `help xterminals'.

You may be able to use the print commands in an informal
contest, if you are located in the same building as the
printer.  The command `printer' will tell you the name
of your printer, if one exists.  If you have no printer,
or want to change your printer, you can set up your
account to use the printer of your choice or to e-mail
postscript files of printouts to the e-mail address of
your choice.  See `help print'.

The `scoreboard' and `help' commands work for an
informal contest.

If you are simulating a formal contest precisely, you
will not be allowed to use the alternative make commands
that `in-submit' or `inout-submit'.  However `solution-
submit' may work.

Your contest account will normally remain for some
longish period of time after the contest so you can
log in and email out your solutions, in order to save
them.




File:		informal_contest
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: hc3 $
    $Date: 2006/03/11 14:16:35 $
    $RCSfile: informal_contest,v $
    $Revision: 1.7 $
