HPCM Status
---- ------

The current version is 02_001.

Future Versions:
------ --------

The next step is to fully support an automatic on-line
course for good or well tutored students.  A candidate
course is based on the web-text on Symbolic Programming
at www.deas.harvard/~walton, but an alternative is also
in the works.

Aside from basic maintenance and regular contributions
to the problem library, there are no other ambitions
for HPCM.

Version 02_001:
------- ------

This version is a minor upgrade repairing bugs in ver-
sion 02_000.

web_index.html
web_solutions_index.html
    Erroneous names HPCM_VERSION{,_CVS}_MD5_Signatures
    changed to HPCM_VERSION{,_CVS}_Signatures.  SHA1
    sums of .tgz files added to web_*index.html files.

Version 02_000:
------- ------

This version is a major upgrade adding the following
major features:

1) Automatic feedback optionally giving a submitter the
   judge's test case where the submission first failed.
   A new untimed, feedback scoring system is built on
   this.

2) Contest making almost completely driven by editing
   a few parameters in the judging directory hpcm_
   judging.rc file and running the `makecontest' program
   (formerly named `makejudgingdir').

Because there are quite a few changes, the `overview'
should be read anew by anyone using a previous 01_xxx
version.

Most of the system has been stable since before BOSPRE
2006, and can be rated `beta test'.  The main changes
made since BOSPRE 2006, which should be rated `alpha
test', are:

3) System for printing remotely using wrappers and pipes
   and ssh or email.  See the printer_commands global
   variable in hpcm/examples/formal_contest/hpcm_
   judging.rc.

4) System for sending scoreboards to remote computers to
   be put on the web using ssh and email.  See score-
   board_commands in hpcm/judge/lib/hpcm_judging.rc.

5) System for automatically converting a formal timed
   contest to an untimed or unranked contest using the
   scoreboard_shutdown_time global variable.

6) The rerun_contest program and -rerun option to
   autojudge, and support in manualreply for reruns.

7) The system for making files using the problems_make_
   files global variable in autojudge, makecontest, and
   testproblems.

8) Revised makescoreboard and startcontest to do a
   better job when hpcm_judging.rc is changed.

9) Changed error handling for programs that do NOT run
   inside the judging directory tree.

10) Allowed abbreviations in logical expressions to be
    any list of tokens.



Version 01_001:
------- ------

This version has been used in BOSPRE 2003 and BOSPRE
2004 and numerous practice contests running under
RedHat 9.0.  It has passed basic tests under Fedora
Core 3, final release (Nov 2004).

In summary, the major changes/additions are:

    Upgraded from RedHat 7.2 to RedHat 9.0 and Fedora
        Core 3.
    Support for PASCAL has been deleted.
    C++ includes have been brought up to date.
    Support for making contest printouts of demos and
        help files (demos.ps, help.ps, help+.ps) has
	been added.
    One prototype account can now serve many contests.
    Added problems from BOSPRE 2003/2004 and world
        finals 1998/1999/2003.

All files changed from previous version are listed
below.

contestant/bin/hpcm_extract  (bug fixes)
  1. Fixed bug that skipped every other file when
     EXTRACTING FILES THAT HAD ALREADY BEEN EXTRACTED,
     and failed to find end of files marker if odd
     number of files included in message.
  2. Fixed bug that caused infinite loop if end of
     files marker not found.

contestant/bin/email_diff (new file)
  To be used in place of filtered_diff for tests.

contestant/bin/hpcm_submit (deleted feature)
contestant/help/index.html (deleted feature)
contestant/help/common/input (deleted feature)
contestant/help/common/output (deleted feature)
contestant/help/common/solving (deleted feature)
  Deleted PASCAL as a programming language.

contestant/help/Makefile (added feature)
contestant/help/index.html (added feature)
  Added ability to make help.ps, help+.ps, demos.ps.
  Added help.ps and demos.ps to the web page.

contestant/help/index (minor format revisions)

contestant/help/common/advice (minor revision)
  Clarified secondary score.

contestant/help/common/c++ (added information)
  Updated C++ include-file and namespace usage info.
  Added info on file-end-detection, numeric constants,
  istringstream, cin.get, and cin.peek.

contestant/help/common/java (very minor revision)

contestant/help/formal/formal_this_contest_prototype
  Added injunction that contestants should check they
  are logged into the right account.

contestant/bin/scoreboard (bug fixes)
  Fixed expr(1) pattern matching problem and added
  -debug feature.

contestant/help/advanced/geometry_exercises (new file)
  Advanced exercises in geometry.  Written as input
  for world finals materials.

contestant/bin/SETUP_PROTOTYPE (changed documentation)
contestant/bin/TRASH_ACCOUNT (made addition)
  Added extra_setup.tar for contest specific contestant
  files, e.g. .ssh files, so a single prototype account
  could be used with several contests.

examples/** (added/deleted features)
  Deleted PASCAL tests.
  Added javaio demo.
  Added extra_setup.tar.
  Added help.ps, help+.ps, and demos.ps printouts.
  Added advice on finishing formal contest.
  For formal contests, added small and large contest
  scoreboards and post contest scoreboard.
  Revised to use mew{en,de}code instead of mimencode.
  Revised tests to use email_diff instead of
      filtered_diff.
  Fixed C++ include's in tests.
  Fixed javaio test wordChars problem.

judge/bin/installing_hpcm  (minor documentation fixes)
  Changed name hpcm-*.*.tar to hpcm_*_*.tgz. 
  Added description of hpcm_*_*_solutions.tgz.

judge/bin/autojudge (minor bug fix)
  Fixed to NOT delete Reply_File.

judge/bin/autoscore (added feature)
judge/lib/scoring_common.tcl (added features)
judge/src/scorediff.cc (added features)
  Added nosign and nonumber scoring options.

judge/bin/fprint (added feature)
  Added -o option to route postscript to stdout.

judge/bin/judging (minor revision)
  Revised to indicate group rx permissions need to be
  added to all judging account files, not just ~/hpcm/
  files, if there is an auxiliary judge.

judge/bin/manualreply (deleted feature)
judge/bin/overview (deleted feature)
judge/bin/sloc_counts (deleted feature)
judge/lib/hpcm_judging.rc (deleted feature)
  Deleted PASCAL as a programming language.

judge/bin/remakeMakefile (added feature)
  Added feature to test without copying files.
  Added ability to handle errors with just warning
        messages.

judge/bin/scorefinder (documentation fix)
  Indicated f flag means reply file and NOT received
  file exists.

judge/bin/sloc_counts (fixed minor bug)
  Blank lines can now contain form feeds and vertical
  tabs.

judge/bin/testproblem (minor fixes)
  Now uses bash if that is available.
  Now issues warning messages in common cases.

judge/lib/hpcm_judging.rc (maintenance)
  Now uses mew{en,de}code and not mimencode.

judge/lib/judging_common.tcl (very minor bug fixes)
  Recoded scrub_filename (used by makejudgingdir)

secure/bin/hpcm_email_passwords (very minor revision)

STATUS (added to documentation)
  Added Version 01_001.

Makefile (minor revisions and some additions)
  Changed version number to 01_001.
  Added `make files', `make distribution.files', and
  `make cvs.files'.
  Revised `make auxiliary' to set group rx permissions
  on all judging judging account files, not just ~/hpcm/
  files.

signatures_header (revised)

TODO (revised)

problem_library/*
  Updated to use new C++ includes and namespaces.
  Minor bug fixes.
  Deleted PASCAL demos.
  Added problems from BOSPRE 2003, BOSPRE 2004, America
      Northeast Regional 2002, world finals 1998, 1999,
      2003, and a few others.


Version 01_000:
------- ------

This is a beta test version, and the first public
release.  The programs that do the judging are almost
identical to those that were used in BOSPRE 2002 and
should be reliable.  They have evolved from BOSPRE 2000
to BOSPRE 2002.

Extraction of message parts, quoted-printable, and
base64 text from email has been added very recently and
is more likely than other features of the basic judging
software to contain bugs.

Some features have never been used except for simple
testing.  These include any Files file in a solution
directory and all the features invokable by such a
file, and any non-standard response_instructions in
hpcm_judging.rc.


Version 00_000 (aka 0.0):
------- ------ ---------

This is an alpha test version.

The programs that do the judging are almost identical
to those that were used in BOSPRE 2000, and thus should
be fairly reliable.  Note, however, that during BOSPRE
2000 the `reply' program was used and NOT the `tracker'
program.  `tracker' needs some work, and may or may not
be usable in a contest.

The programs that set up a contest have been extensively
improved since BOSPRE 2000.  The scorediff program that
compares submitter's and judge's results has been re-
written since this version.  A number of other sub-
systems have been added or extensively improved since
this version.



File:	STATUS
Author:	Bob Walton (walton@deas.harvard.edu)
Date:	Fri Jan 12 13:10:21 EST 2007


The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: walton $
    $Date: 2007/02/10 01:24:28 $
    $RCSfile: STATUS,v $
    $Revision: 1.16 $
