File: TODO
Date: Sun Mar  9 06:33:17 EST 2003

Software
--------

The scorediff program should be rewritten to skip over
non-matching lines to find following matching lines,
rather than slavishly comparing successive tokens after
a mismatch has been found.  It should be more like UNIX
diff, but should require matches keep file order.  The
result will be more useful for automatic grading of
problem sets, where failure in one part of the test
should not imply failure in subsequent parts.

Create an info_extension_map that permits extensions
to be mapped, and permits info to NOT return .rc
files.

Add recipient filter to receivemail so system is not
dependent on procmail.

A scoresort program needs to be written that will sort
all blocks between blank lines, where a block is a
sequence of lines beginning with a line that begins with
a non-whitespace character.  This can be applied to the
crypto problem in its multiple solution form.

Write a print_index_files program to print an index and
all files listed in it.

Write hpcm_help for email/sh.

The Files file in a solution directory might be elimi-
nated in favor of putting its information in the
PROBLEM.rc file.


Documentation
-------------


Done but Not Sufficiently Tested
--------------------------------

The Files file in a solution directory and all the
features invokable from it have never been used in prac-
tice.  Ditto for non-standard response instructions.

Problem Library
------- -------
