Core Probability Help       Mon Dec 10 05:00:03 EST 2012


Probabilities
-------------

Probabilities are ratios of certain kinds of counts.

Suppose we have an experiment that we can run over and
over again, and which has N possible outcomes, o1, o2,
..., oN.  Think of an N-sided dice that can be thrown
over and over again.

Suppose that after the first M repetitions of the
experiment (e.g., dice throws) the number of times each
outcome has been observed are c1, c2, ..., cN, respec-
tively.  Then we look at the ratios

	p1 = c1/M, p2 = c2/M, ..., pN = cN/M

and see how these ratios change as we keep repeating
the experiment thus increasing M.  If these ratios tend
to converge to particular numbers that we call `limits',
we say that these limits are the `probabilities' of the
outcomes, and write p1, p2, ..., pN to denote these
limits, i.e., these probabilities.

So for example, if the experiment consists of throwing
a normal 6-sided dice, we might expect all the outcome
probabilities to converge to 1/6, so we get

	p1 = p2 = p3 = p4 = p5 = p6 = 1/6

But things might not be thus, so let us look at what
else might happen.

One possibility is that the ratios converge but not
to equal values, so maybe

    p1 = 5/60, p2 = 15/60, p3 = p4 = p5 = p6 = 10/60

in which case throwing a 1 is less likely than one
would expect and throwing a 2 more likely.  In this
case the probabilities are still well defined, but
they differ from what we expected.  For dice we say
that the dice is `unbiased' if all the probabilities
are equal, and `biased' if they are not.  Gamblers
may try to cheat by using biased dice which they
falsely claim are unbiased, for example.

The other possibility is the that ratios do NOT con-
verge to particular numbers, but tend to wander about
over a range of values as M, the number of experiments
(e.g., dice throws) increases.  Then the probabilities
are UNDEFINED.  For example, you are gambling with a
cheater who has magnetised the dice and put an electro-
magnet under the table which he controls with a foot
switch.  You can say if you like that there is an
external factor, the switch position, that affects the
probabilities, but if you don't know what the external
factors are, and they keep changing while you repeat
the experiment, then all you see is ratios that refuse
to converge.






File:		probability
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@seas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: walton $
    $Date: 2012/12/10 14:02:54 $
    $RCSfile: probability,v $
    $Revision: 1.1 $
