C++ Help		    Mon Feb 18 04:55:19 EST 2002

Fixed Width Output
------------------

The following is useful for producing fixed width format
numbers.

To output a right adjusted integer I in N columns use:

		cout << setw (N) << I;

Setw sets the width of the next output; but each output
resets this to 0 so you must reset the width just before
outputting each N column number.  The width of 0 means
`use as many columns as necessary'.

To output a right adjusted floating point number F in N
columns with P decimal places use:

    cout << setiosflags ( ios::showpoint | ios::fixed);
    cout << setprecision (P);
    cout << setw (N) << F;

The precision P and flags do not get reset after the
number is output.  They can be reset to defaults by

   cout << resetiosflags ( ios::showpoint | ios::fixed);
   cout << setprecision (6);

To use setw etc. you need to:

    #include <iomanip.h>

Inputting Lines
--------- -----

To input a line use the getline function, as in 

	char buffer [SOME_SIZE];
	cin.getline ( buffer, sizeof ( buffer ) );

The new line at the end of the line is NOT stored in the
buffer; a NUL character is stored at the end of the line
in the buffer.  Do NOT try to use the `get' function in
place of `getline': its behavior is similar but it does
NOT skip over the new line in the input stream, and
therefore after reading the first line it reads empty
lines forever.


What May Not Work
-----------------

You should NOT try to use C++ templates or exceptions.
Features like these are not yet standardized across C++
compilers, and we have little faith in the ability of
our compiler to handle them sufficiently correctly
(templates mostly work, but ... ).

The `bool' data type does work, however.





File:		c++
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: hc3 $
    $Date: 2002/02/18 10:04:06 $
    $RCSfile: c++,v $
    $Revision: 1.4 $
