JAVA Help		    Tue Oct 12 07:45:18 EDT 2010


JAVA API documentation is usually available on-line
during a formal contest.  The command to access it is:

	javahelp

In a formal contest, you should NOT use other means to
access such documentation, as using the internet is a
violation of formal contest rules.

The next page has a suitable structure for a program
that solves a problem named PPPP that needs only line
input and character-within-line computations.

For a program that has free format input/output (line
feeds are sometimes treated as single space characters)
or has floating point output, a good option is to use
the demos/javaio/javaio.java file as a template, chang-
ing the name `javaio' to `PPPP' in both the file and
class name.  This program has functions that should make
IO easier.

If you use your own code, be sure any DecimalFormat you
create uses ENGLISH local and numbers output do NOT
contain commas.

It is fairly common for JAVA programs that run well for
the contestant to crash when run by the judge.  The
usual cause is judge's input data that triggers an ex-
ception not observed with contestant input data.  The
best debugging strategy is to type into the PPPP.in file
a lot of legal input data that might break the program,
so your program will be run against it by `make submit'
and you will observe any crash.

    import java.io.*;

    public class PPPP {

	public static boolean debug;

	public static void dprintln ( String s )
	{
	    if ( debug ) System.out.println ( s );
	}

	public static void main (String[] args)
		throws IOException
	{

	    debug = ( args.length > 0 );

	    BufferedReader reader
	       = new BufferedReader
		     ( new InputStreamReader
			   ( System.in ) );

	    while ( true )
	    {

		String line = reader.readLine();
		if ( line == null ) break;

		. . .

		dprintln ( . . . );

		System.out.println ( . . . );
	    }
	}
    }




File:		java
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: walton $
    $Date: 2010/10/12 11:46:40 $
    $RCSfile: java,v $
    $Revision: 1.9 $
