Output Help		    Mon Sep 18 16:43:00 EDT 2000

In general, to be correct your program must produce
EXACTLY the one and only correct sequence of output
characters.

The only whitespace characters you should use are new-
line and the single space ' '.

You should never use two single spaces in a row unless
explicitly instructed to do so.  Usually the only time
you use two spaces in a row is when you are asked to
line things up in columns.

You should never put space characters at the beginning
or ending of lines unless explicitly instructed to do so
(which is never, except for beginning spaces to line
something up in a column).

You must use the correct upper or lower case.

The judging is done by comparing your program's output
to a judge's solution's output on specially prepared
judge's input.  The comparison checks for differences
in column position of non-numeric non-blank characters
and the ends of numbers, and checks the differences
of numbers.  The comparison is likely to require an
EXACT match for output that does not include floating
point numbers, and an EXACT match except for numbers
when floating point numbers are included.  BEWARE.

To format floating point numbers within a fixed number
of columns, you should use formats like %10.6f in C
and :10:6 in PASCAL.  See the help file on C++ for
information on how to write fixed width floating point
numbers in C++.
