Print Help		    Tue Apr 25 01:08:22 EDT 2006

In a fully formal contest the contest staff will bring
your printouts to you, and you are NOT permitted to
fetch them from the printer yourself.  The `printer'
command below may tell you something about the status of
your printout.

In a formal contest run for practice purposes, you may
be asked to get your own printouts.  The `printer'
command will tell you which printer printed them.

In other contests in which you are given an account into
which you log from your own personal computer, you have
to define your printer yourself in the ~/PRINTER file of
your account: see below for details.

Printer Commands:
----------------

    print filename ...

	Prints files with 80 column width.

    print2 filename ...

	Prints files with 80 column width using a more
	compact two pages per page format and very
	small font.

    fprint filename ...

	Ditto but assumes 56 column width and uses a
	normal sized font.  All our documentation and
	sample code is written with a 56 column width
	(and where appropriate, a 40 line per page
	length).

    printer

	Shows the printer status.


Printer Definition Using The ~/PRINTER File
------- ---------- ----- --- --------- ----

If you are given a contest account into which you log
from your own personal computer, you have to define your
printer by putting its name in the ~/PRINTER file in
your contest account.   The name of the printer can be
an email address, in which case postscript files will be
emailed to that address, instead of being sent to a
normal printer.

If ~/PRINTER contains an email address, postscript files
will be the bodies of the messages mailed.  But if
~/PRINTER contains an email address preceded by an
initial `@' (so ~/PRINTER has a line with two `@'s) then
the postscript files will be attachments in the messages
mailed.

If postscript files are being emailed in message bodies
to an address like `fee<fi@fo>' on a system that uses
`procmail' (e.g., Linux), one typically puts the follow-
ing entry in the `.procmailrc' file of the `fi@fo'
account:

	:0 b
	* ^To:[ 	]+fee<fi
	| lpr -Plp

This pipes the body of any email received with a `To'
address of `fee<fi...' to `lpr -Plp'.  Here the []'s
contain a space followed by a tab.

If you are working in the same building as a printer
known to the computer on which your contest account
runs, and you want to use that printer, you can just put
its name in ~/PRINTER.  This name must not have any
`@'s.



File:		print
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: hc3 $
    $Date: 2006/04/25 05:18:35 $
    $RCSfile: print,v $
    $Revision: 1.7 $
