Scoreboard Help		    Mon Sep 23 05:41:31 EDT 2002


Interpreting the Scoreboard
------------ --- ----------

The scoreboard tells for each submitter (contest
account) and for each problem whether the submitter has
submitted a correct solution to the problem and when
this solution was submitted.  The total number of sub-
missions by the submitter for the problem, including in-
correct submissions before the first correct submission,
may also be given.

A submitter may be a team or an individual, depending on
the type of contest.

If the contest is being scored, the number of correct
submissions by each submitter is displayed, and submit-
ters with greater numbers of correct submissions appear
earlier in the scoreboard.

Problems may or may not be timed.  If they are not
timed, then only the date of the first correct submis-
sion of a problem is displayed.  If problems are timed,
the elapsed time between the problem start time and the
time of the first correct submission is displayed.  For
a formal contest the start time of all problems is the
start time of the contest.  For informal contests, and
for email contests that are timed, the start time of a
problem may be the time the problem was gotten by the
submitter using hpcm_get, or the time the submitter got
its first problem using hpcm_get.

If a contest is being scored and problems are being
timed, submitters with the same number of correct pro-
blems are ranked according to their total time, which is
just a sum the times the submitter needed to solve each
problem.  The submitter with the smallest total time
ranks highest among all submitters with the same number
of correct problems, and appears first in the score-
board.

More specifically, the total time of a submitter is the
sum of the problem elapsed times, in seconds, for all
problems the submitter has solved.  Optionally a penalty
may added for each incorrect submission of a problem
before the correct submission of that problem.  Typical
penalties, if they are being used, are 10 to 20 minutes.
There is no penalty for incorrect submission of a pro-
blem never submitted correctly by a submitter.

If there are no submissions for a problem by a submit-
ter, `......' appears in the scoreboard for the submit-
ter and problem.  If there are only incorrect submis-
sions, and incorrect submissions are being reported on
the scoreboard, then `..../N' appears, where N is the
number of incorrect submissions for the problem.

If a submitter has submitted a correct solution for a
problem, and the elapsed time between the problem start
time and the time of the correct solution is being re-
ported, this time may be represented as `M:SSsN', with
decimal numbers M, SS, and N, meaning that the problem
time is M minutes and SS seconds, and there were N sub-
missions, including N-1 incorrect submissions before the
first correct submission.  The `s' means the time SS is
in seconds.  N may be omitted if incorrect submissions
are not being reported on the scoreboard.

`H:MMmN' instead means the time is H hours and MM min-
utes, rounded down to the nearest minute.  `D:HHhN'
instead means the time is D days and HH hours, rounded
down to the nearest hour.  `DdN' means the time is D
days, rounded down to the nearest day.  The choice of
time unit, s, m, h, or d, is made to give the elapsed
time to the greatest accuracy within 6 display charac-
ters, including the unit character.  However the actual
problem time used for computing a submitter's total time
as described above is always in seconds.

In some contests, problems are scored first by an auto-
judge, and then if they are not completely correct, the
score is reviewed by a human judge.  If you see a `*'
prefixed to any item of scoreboard information, this
means that one or more submissions used to compute the
item have been scored incorrect by the auto-judge, but
are still awaiting review by the human judge.




File:		scoreboard
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@deas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: hc3 $
    $Date: 2002/09/23 09:42:49 $
    $RCSfile: scoreboard,v $
    $Revision: 1.8 $
