X-Terminals Help	    Thu Oct 13 07:45:43 EDT 2011

This file is for those who are using an account provided
by the contest managers, and who are logging into that
account using ssh with X-windows.  Note that to do this
from UNIX you may need to use the -X option to ssh, as
in
	ssh -X someaccount@somecomputer


Creating Windows with Xsh
-------------------------

To create a new window you may use the command:

    xsh     Start a new X terminal window running your
    	    current shell.

            The new window tends to form directly over
	    the top of the leftmost existing window, so
	    one of these windows has to be moved.

If gnome-terminal is available, xsh uses it.  Otherwise
is uses xterm.  It can be forced to use xterm by giving
it the `-xterm' option, as in `xsh -xterm'.

If gnome-terminal is used a toolbar will appear at the
top of the window and this can be used to change the
window size and create new windows.  You can change the
characteristics of the current and future windows by
editing the current profile (xsh always uses the
`Default' profile).  Also control + will increase the
window size, control - will decrease it, control N will
create a new window, control T will create a new `tab'
in the current window.  When the window size changes,
the font size changes correspondingly.

If xterm is used, an additional argument may be given
to xsh which is the font point size.  A `b' may be
suffixed to this to force bold font.  So

	xsh -xterm 25b

will use xterm with 25 point bold font.

To get more complete documentation of xsh type the
command `xsh -doc'.


Destroying a Window
---------- - ------

To destroy a window just type the command `exit', or if
that does not work, `logout'.

BUT BE CAREFUL not to destroy your original (root)
window as doing that may destroy all other windows and
force you to call the contest manager to log you back
in.


File:		xterminals
Author:		Bob Walton <walton@seas.harvard.edu>
Date:		See top of file.

The authors have placed this file in the public domain;
they make no warranty and accept no liability for this
file.

RCS Info (may not be true date or author):

    $Author: walton $
    $Date: 2011/10/13 11:58:03 $
    $RCSfile: terminals,v $
    $Revision: 1.10 $
