Email Contest Help	    Sun Oct 29 05:10:33 EST 2000

In order to participate in an email contest, you need an
account on a machine of your own in which to solve prob-
lems.  This account should support the programming lang-
uages you want to use, and should support email.  This
account will communicate with the contest autojudge
through email.

If your account is on a machine that supports the Bourne
shell (sh), as all UNIX machines do, HPCM provides a set
of tool programs to make participating in an email con-
test easier.  See the file `help/unix_email_tools'.

Contest Definition
------- ----------

You will be given an email address to use in communica-
ting with the autojudge.  This email address typically
has the form `fee<fie@fo.fum>' where `fee' is a password
that is not to be revealed to the public.  You will
also typically be given a web URL of the form

	www.fiddle/~diddle/private/fee

where fee is the same password as in the email address,
and the URL is not to be put in a public web page.  The
`private' directory here is not readable by the public,
so to access the web page a person has to know the
password.  The scoreboard will be posted on the web
page, along with information about how to participate in
the contest.


Getting Started
------- -------

To get started, send email to the judge with the subject
`get help' and an empty message body.  The reply will
contain many files (including this file).

If you have a UNIX system, follow the directions in the
file help/unix_email_tools.

If you do not have a UNIX system, you need not extract
any files from email replies.  You will probably want to
print the reply to the `get help' message and read most
of the `help' files therein.  You can ignore any
`help/sh' files, as these are UNIX tools.

Then you can send a message to the judge with the sub-
ject `get demos' and read the appropriate parts of the
reply.

You can practice submitting a solution by sending one
of the `demos/count' solutions to the judge.  For
example, if you send a message to the judge with the
subject `submit count.c' and a body equal to the
contents of the `demos/count/count1.c' file, you should
get back a reply saying the submission was `Completely
Correct'.


Working Problems
------- --------

You can find out what problems are available by looking
at the file `help/problems' (in the reply to the
`get help' message).  Suppose you decide to attempt a
problem named `pppp' in the C++ language.  Send email to
the judge with the subject `get problems/pppp' and an
empty body.  The reply will contain a description of the
problem in the form of a file named `problems/pppp/
pppp.txt'.  The reply also contains a file named
`problems/pppp/Makefile' which is not of direct use,
since you do not have a UNIX system, but which does
contain the resource limits applied to the problem
during judging.

Then write a solution to the problem in C++ as a file
named pppp.cc.  To submit the solution, send email to
the judge with subject `submit pppp.cc' and message
body equal to just the contents of the file `pppp.cc'.
